APJ ABDUL KALAM TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY
Sixth Semester B.Tech Degree Examination, April 2018
Course Code: CS407
Course Name: DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING
Max. Marks: 100
Duration: 3 Hours

PART A
Answer all questions, each carries 4 marks.
1. Distinguish between tightly coupled and loosely coupled multiprocessor systems. (Module I)
2. Explain the workstation-server model of distributed computing. (Module I)
3. What is an architectural model? (Module II)
4. Define Remote Procedure Call (RPC). (Module III)
5. How is a multicast communication different from a broadcast? (Module III)
6. What is the role of a Name Service in a distributed system? (Module IV)
7. What are nested transactions? (Module V)
8. State the conditions for conflict serializability. (Module V)
9. Explain the bully algorithm for election. (Module VI)
10. Describe the ring-based algorithm for mutual exclusion. (Module VI)

PART B
Answer any two full questions, each carries 9 marks.
11. a) Explain the various issues in designing a distributed system. (5)
    b) Discuss the trends in distributed systems. (4)
12. a) Describe the physical models of distributed systems. (5)
    b) What are the fundamental models? Explain in detail. (4)
13. a) Compare Minicomputer model and Workstation model. (5)
    b) Discuss the processor-pool model. (4)

PART C
Answer any two full questions, each carries 9 marks.
14. a) Explain the architecture of Network File System (NFS). (6)
    b) What are the characteristics of interprocess communication? (3)
15. a) Discuss Skype as a case study for network virtualization. (5)
    b) Explain Andrew file system. (4)
16. a) Explain group communication and its types. (5)
    b) What is file service architecture? (4)

PART D
Answer any two full questions, each carries 12 marks.
17. a) Explain optimistic concurrency control in detail. (6)
    b) What are locks? Explain two phase locking protocol. (6)
18. a) Describe Maekawa's voting algorithm. Calculate its message complexity. (8)
    b) Explain the central server algorithm for mutual exclusion. (4)
19. a) Explain the concept of transactions in a distributed environment. (6)
    b) Compare Ring-based election algorithm and Bully algorithm with examples. (6)
